once you hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled this time we're
going to be looking at the 2004
psychological thriller The Machinist
written by Scott kosa and directed by
Brad Anderson the story follows a
machinist named Trevor Reznik played by
Christian Bale a man who lives a
solitary life where he struggles with
insomnia and as a result has become
emaciated physically Bale reportedly
took on a diet of water one Apple and a
cup of coffee a day barely over 250
calories to lose 62 pounds for the role
his gaunt
skeletal like appearance is truly a
haunting visual an emblematic of the
movie itself you talk about the
machinist you talk about how thin
Christian Bale looks one day Trevor
comes across a mysterious new co-worker
who introduces himself as Ivan and later
on Ivan distracts Trevor while he's
working causing an accident which costs
a fellow machinist his arm when he tries
to explain to his bosses that he was
distracted by Ivan they don't know who
he's talking about what what distracted
you
it was I even i was watching ivan in the
pit the whole thing was my fault okay
who did you say no arc well around those
last night
what new arc welder I've earned the guy
from the swing shift Reynolds was picked
up on a warrant who's got to this place
there is no Ivan at national machine
risen it
the only solace that Trevor seems to
take in life is in his regular meetings
with Stevie a prostitute who has taken a
liking to him and also in Maria a
waitress at an airport diner that he
goes to every day but as his obsession
with finding out who Ivan is and if he
really does exist begins to grow
it makes Trevor's life even more
stressful and difficult later on while
he's in work Trevor hallucinates that
his arm is being mangled by a machine
much like his coworker who lost a limb
and gets into a fight with the other
machinist believing them to have tried
to set him up Trevor is fired over the
incident and becomes even more alienated
and spirals into a deeper isolation he
forgets to pay his utility bill and
loses electricity in his apartment while
a dark blood like substance begins to
leak from his fridge the plot thickens
literally he manages to find Ivan again
a notes down the license plate from his
car but runs out of gas and can't pursue
him any further when the DMV refuses to
give Trevor any information based on the
plate number Trevor decides to throw
himself in front of a car to try and pin
an actual crime on Ivan using the plate
number when he goes to the police though
he finds out who the car that Ivan
drives actually belongs to are you sure
about these plate numbers 1969 red
Pontiac Firebird registered in your name
nearly a year ago you reported it as
being totaled in a wreck
so the car Trevor has seen I've been
driving around in his in fact Trevor's
own car which he had reported as totaled
a year previously but he doesn't seem to
remember this when he turns to Stevie
for moral support he finds a photograph
in her apartment of Ivan and confronts
her she insists that she doesn't know
what he's talking about next he tries to
turn to Maria but discovers yet another
revelation as he returns to the familiar
airport diner
three of my waitress ma your chatty
tonight darling I'm your waitress it's
gonna see
talking about come in here every night
sitting on that same stool staring at
your coffee to think you were a mute
mister there's no Maria that works here
earlier in the film Trevor went for a
day out with Maria and her son Nicholas
who ended up having a seizure as we
reached the home stretch of the film
Trevor tracks Ivan back to his own
apartment where he is seemingly leading
Nicolas into after a confrontation with
Ivan Trevor kills him and opens his
fridge to find rotting fish the source
of the blood he rolls up Ivan's body in
a carpet and begins to dispose of him in
a scene that we actually opened the
movie with here's the scene at the
beginning of the film
[Music]
and now the scene as it plays out at the
end
[Music]
looks like he got some explaining to do
murder
[Laughter]
after numerous hints and flashes of this
moment throughout the film inside
Trevor's mind and the things that are
coming out through his memory we then
see a flashback to a year earlier where
Trevor was driving and accidentally hit
a young boy on the road the young boy
being Nicholas Trevor now remembers what
happened and fills in the hangman
post-it note that has been hanging on
his fridge calling himself a killer he
drives to the police station to turn
himself in for the hit and run
Ivan still silently with him as we reach
the very final scene of the film
the police take Trevor into custody
guides him to a cell where he finally
falls asleep and we see one last vision
of a healthier yet emotionally stricken
Trevor driving through a tunnel
[Music]
so on outside appearances this is the
story of a man who killed a young child
accidentally and ran away from this
truth for a year in the process he
changed both physically and mentally
unable to sleep he repressed this
horrific memory and due to his gross
sleep deprivation he hallucinates it a
lot of the world around him the waitress
at the airport he envisioned as Maria
Nicholas's mother he also imagined being
with Nicolas during a traumatic event at
the fairground
then there's Ivan who according to every
other character who is confronted with
his name insists they've never heard of
or seen Ivan's license plates CRN 743 is
the reverse of Trevor's NRC 347 is this
a hint least of all the Ivan is driving
Trevor's old car the Ivan is somehow
also Trevor or at least a reflection of
Trevor that he is a hallucinate addres
present' a ssin of Trevor's dark side or
even his guilt when we first see Ivan
the shot is almost surreal with a stormy
sky framing his face there is a sinister
otherworldly feel to Ivan at times and
Trevor's mind creating an imaginary
physical embodiment of everything that
he hates about himself seems to sort of
make sense or on the other hand
Ivan could be a symbol of Trevor's
conscience who tries in some warped way
to lead trevor down the path to
accepting what he did there are many
theories about the ending of The
Machinist one of which proposes that the
bright white to sell The Trevor allows
himself to be imprisoned in represents
heaven that he has accepted his sin and
has now left hell yeah there is an idea
that the majority of the movie actually
takes place in some kind of
manifestation of Hell the muted tones
the painful existence the trevor is
forced to live through never being able
to sleep and constantly being haunted by
the instant he has tried so hard to
repress in some interpretations this
also frames Ivan as some form of the
devil which I personally think is a bit
too broad of an eye
not to mention that this theory requires
Trevor to be dead which to me doesn't
seem to ring very true to the overall
story earlier in the film we see a lot
of clues laid out when Trevor takes
Nicholas on the route 666 ride at the
fairground first we see a waitress
representing perhaps Maria the
comforting presence of a waitress
fitting Trevor's image of this innocent
mother who had lost her son secondly we
see an Indian holding a severed hand
representing the co-worker who lost his
hand in the factory next a woman in
black mourning over a grave again
perhaps Maria grieving over Nicholas
after that a hanged man with a sign
reading guilty next to it symbolizing
Trevor as the guilty man responsible for
this death and how subconsciously Trevor
knows he should pay for what he did
then there's shady lady Motel standing
in for Trevor's relationship with Stevie
a cutout of a young boy running in front
of the car and getting hits a crashed
car with a body and finally a fork in
the road left to the highway to hell
right to the road to salvation
Trevor instructs Nicholas to turn right
but the car turns left anyway inside the
tunnel the strobing lights give Nicholas
a seizure and Trevor experiences brief
flashbacks to the accident a year
previously in many ways this whole
sequence could be seen as Trevor's wild
concoction inside his mind trying to
push himself to remember the truth the
Highway to Hell symbolism sure isn't
subtle but comes back around again at
the end when Trevor remembers the truth
and can either drive left to the airport
to continue running away from the
problem or he can drive right and make
the right choice and to turn himself in
the final shot of the film shows
Trevor's anguish moments after the
accident as can be seen by the smashed
window and as he rides through the
tunnel the apparent Highway to Hell the
road to ignoring his crime and before we
fade to white we see him steal his
expression his choice to repress and to
Gantz was Trevor dead all along was he
stuck in hell until he could accept and
own up to his sins or was he just a
regular guy who made one huge mistake
and in pushing it to the back of his
mind and running away from it ended up
almost killing himself with repressed
guilts almost literally eating away at
him until he could finally lead himself
to the road to salvation I think the
latter but what do you think let us know
in the comment section and as always
thanks for watching
[Music]
you